

#Radiology Summary 234987#

EXAMINATION:  CHEST (PORTABLE AP)

INDICATION:   ___ s/p fall

COMPARISON:  Same-day neck CTA and chest radiograph from ___

FINDINGS: 

AP portable upright view of the chest.  Midline sternotomy wires and
mediastinal clips again noted.  Overlying EKG leads are present.  The heart is
stably mildly enlarged.  Prominence of the superior mediastinum reflects known
hematoma in the retropharyngeal space extending into the superior mediastinum
as seen on same-day neck CT.  Lungs are clear bilaterally.  Bony structures
appear intact.

IMPRESSION: 

As above.


#Radiology Summary 234988#

EXAMINATION:  CT HEAD W/O CONTRAST

INDICATION:  ___ with history of headstrike on Coumadin// eval for
intracranial hemorrhage

TECHNIQUE:  Contiguous axial images of the brain were obtained without
contrast.

DOSE:  Total DLP (Head) = 803 mGy-cm.

COMPARISON:  CT head ___.

FINDINGS: 

There is no evidence of large vascular territory
infarction,hemorrhage,edema,or mass effect.  There is prominence of the
ventricles and sulci suggestive of involutional changes.  Again demonstrated,
is severe periventricular and subcortical white matter hypodensities,
consistent with chronic microvascular ischemic disease.  Bilateral basal
ganglia and thalamic hypodensities are also noted similar to prior.

There is no fracture.  Mild mucosal thickening of the sphenoid sinus.  The
visualized portion of the remaining paranasal sinuses, mastoid air cells, and
middle ear cavities are clear.  There is a small ___ and preseptal
hematoma without underlying fracture or signs of globe injury.

IMPRESSION:


1. No acute hemorrhage or fracture.
2. Chronic small vessel disease.
3. Small left ___ hematoma.


#Radiology Summary 234989#

EXAMINATION:  CT NECK W/O CONTRAST

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with history of neck fullness on Coumadin with
concern for collection// eval for hematoma

TECHNIQUE:  Multidetector CT through the neck performed without contrast with
multiplanar reformations

DOSE:  Total DLP (Body) = 310 mGy-cm.

COMPARISON:  None.

FINDINGS: 

There is a massive midline prevertebral hematoma approximately 12.8 cm in
craniocaudal dimension and 6.8 (TR) x 4.4 (AP) cm.  Urgent CTA is required to
assess active bleeding, ? carotid injury.  There is associated mass-effect on
the airway most pronounced at the level of the epiglottis.  Consider urgent
intubation for airway protection.

An acute hyperextension fracture is noted at the anterior inferior corner of
C4 without distraction or alignment abnormality.  Fracture is best appreciated
on the sagittal reformats, series 602b image 28 through 31.  There is minimal
anterolisthesis of C2 on C3 which is likely chronic/related to degeneration. 
Disc disease is most notable spanning C4 through C7 with loss of disc space,
disc osteophyte complexes which result in mild to moderate central spinal
canal narrowing.  In addition, uncovertebral joint hypertrophy noted at
multiple levels results in severe neural foraminal narrowing at C4-5 and C5-6
on the left.  The lung apices notable for emphysema.  Prevertebral hematoma
extends to the level of the superior mediastinum.  Thyroid is unremarkable.

IMPRESSION: 

Massive prevertebral hematoma with associated hyper extension teardrop
fracture at C4 without alignment abnormality or distraction.  Recommend urgent
CTA to assess active bleeding.

RECOMMENDATION(S):
-Intubation for airway protection.
-C-spine collar placement given acute fracture at C4.


#Radiology Summary 234990#

EXAMINATION:  CTA NECK WANDW/OC AND RECONS Q25 CT NECK

INDICATION:  History: ___ with head strike with prevertebral hematoma on CT//
eval for dissection or active extravasation in the neck

TECHNIQUE:  Rapid axial imaging was performed from the aortic arch through the
skull base during infusion of 70 mL of Omnipaque intravenous contrast
material. Three-dimensional angiographic volume rendered, curved reformatted
and segmented images were generated. This report is based on interpretation of
all of these images.

DOSE:  Acquisition sequence:
   1) Stationary Acquisition 6.0 s, 0.5 cm; CTDIvol = 65.3 mGy (Head) DLP =
32.7 mGy-cm.
   2) Spiral Acquisition 4.3 s, 33.7 cm; CTDIvol = 35.2 mGy (Head) DLP =
1,186.8 mGy-cm.
 Total DLP (Head) = 1,219 mGy-cm.

COMPARISON:  CT neck of ___

FINDINGS: 

There is a retropharyngeal hematoma spanning from the level of C2 to T1,
measuring 12.3 cm with max diameter measuring 4.6 x 2.9 cm on the axial
dimension, overall similar in prior examination.  Of note, there is a fluid
fluid level within the ___ the hematoma (series 2, image 135).  At the
level C3-4 disc space, there is vigorous, active extravasation of intravenous
contrast into the hematoma (2:150).  The hematoma appears to be connected to a
small prevertebral arterial vessel (series 2, image 144) although this region
of enhancement cannot be definitively connected to a larger vessel.  The
expanded hematoma displaces the esophagus anteriorly and somewhat narrows the
airways, though the central airways remain patent.  The retroperitoneal
hematoma extends into the mediastinum to the level of pulmonary artery
bifurcation.  There is trace linear hyperdensity, likely representing
additional site of extravasation (series 2, image 103) at the level of the
thyroid gland, without definitive source.

There is layering fluid in the sphenoid sinus.  Mild mucosal thickening is
seen in the posterior ethmoid air cells.  The visualized paranasal sinuses,
mastoid air cells, middle ear cavities are otherwise patent.  Moderate
calcifications are seen at the bilateral carotid siphons.  While this exam is
not tailored for intracranial contents, the visualized circle of ___
appears patent.  No territorial infarct is seen.  Prominent left periorbital
hematoma and soft tissue stranding is noted.

By NASCET criteria, there is no significant stenosis of the ICA bilaterally. 
The left vertebral artery is diminutive throughout its course, likely
congenital variation.

Degenerative changes of the cervical spine with disc space and vertebral body
height loss, most severe at C4 through C7 is noted.  C4 anterior teardrop
fracture is better visualized on prior examination.

IMPRESSION:


1. Extensive retropharyngeal hematoma spanning from C2 through T1, measuring
4.6 x 2.6 cm axially with active extravasation.  Unclear whether this
represents active extravasation from prevertebral artery versus
retropharyngeal branch artery, although the associated vessel does appear to
be likely prevertebral (series 2, image 144).  Consultation with neurosurgery
is recommended.
2. An additional linear focus of hyperdensity along the lateral aspect of the
hematoma inferiorly (series 2, image 103) cannot be connected to a larger
vessel.  This could represent venous hemorrhage.  Close attention on followup
is recommended.
3. Additional findings described above.

NOTIFICATION:   The findings were discussed with ___ resident by ___,
M.D. on the telephone on ___ at 10:03 am, 5 minutes after discovery of
the findings.
 The findings were discussed with ___, M.D. by ___, M.D. on the
telephone on ___ at 10:30 am, 30 minutes after discovery of the findings.


#Radiology Summary 234991#

EXAMINATION:  CHEST (PORTABLE AP)

INDICATION:   ___ with s/p intubation// Eval ETT

COMPARISON:  None

FINDINGS: 

AP portable upright view of the chest.  There has been interval placement of
an endotracheal tube with its tip positioned 3.2 cm above the carina.  An OG
tube courses into the left upper abdomen with its tip excluded from view. 
Midline sternotomy wires and mediastinal clips are again noted.  There is
mediastinal widening which is reflective of known prevertebral/mediastinal
hematoma, appears increased from prior.  The heart remains stably enlarged. 
Lungs are clear.  Bony structures are intact.

IMPRESSION: 

Interval intubation with appropriately positioned ET tube.  OG tube positioned
appropriately.  Expanding mediastinal hematoma.


#Radiology Summary 234992#

EXAMINATION:  CT NECK W/O CONTRAST (EG: PAROTIDS) Q21 CT NECK

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with retropharyngeal hematoma// ?interval
change

TECHNIQUE:  Imaging was performed after administration of Omnipaque
intravenous contrast material.

MDCT acquired helical axial images were obtained from the thoracic inlet
through the skull base.

Coronal and sagittal multiplanar reformats were then produced and reviewed.

DOSE:  Acquisition sequence:
   1) Spiral Acquisition 3.5 s, 27.7 cm; CTDIvol = 5.4 mGy (Body) DLP = 148.6
mGy-cm.
 Total DLP (Body) = 149 mGy-cm.

COMPARISON:  CT neck ___

FINDINGS: 

In comparison with the recent CT neck, there is interval decrease in size of a
retropharyngeal hematoma which now measures 4.2 x 1.7 cm, previously 4.6 x 2.9
cm.  The previously seen hematocrit levels are not visualized on this study. 
This could be secondary to mass effect from intubation and the endotracheal
tubes.  The hematoma extends from C2 through visualized right aspect of the
posterior mediastinum.  However, the extent of hematoma within the mediastinum
appears more prominent when compared to prior examination and findings remain
concerning for active extravasation versus redistribution secondary to mass
effect from the intubation.  There is stranding within the soft tissues of the
lower neck.

There are subcentimeter cervical lymph nodes, possibly reactive.  There are
vascular calcifications of the aorta and origins of the great vessels.  The
thyroid gland appears unremarkable.  There are multilevel degenerative changes
of the cervical spine.  There is dependent atelectasis within the visualized
lung apices.

IMPRESSION:


1. Redemonstration of retropharyngeal hematoma extending from C2 through the
right aspect of the posterior mediastinum, slightly decreased in size from the
prior study with nonvisualized hematocrit levels previously seen, likely
secondary to mass effect from endotracheal tubes and intubation.
2. The hematoma extends to the posterior mediastinum.  The component in the
mediastinum appears more prominent when compared to prior examination.  This
could represent redistribution, however the findings could represent continued
active extravasation and close interval followup is recommended to document
stability/growth.


#Radiology Summary 234993#

EXAMINATION:  Chest CT

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with retropharyngeal hematoma.

TECHNIQUE:  Contiguous axial images were obtained through the chest without
intravenous contrast.  Coronal and sagittal reformats were obtained.

COMPARISON:  Same day neck CTA

FINDINGS: 

HEART AND VASCULATURE:  The there is severe cardiomegaly.  Patient appears
status-post CABG with median sternotomy wires and mediastinal clips.  Native
coronary calcifications are severe.  The aorta is normal in caliber.  Aortic
arch and great vessel origin calcifications are moderate to severe.

MEDIASTINUM: The mediastinal portion of a large retropharyngeal hematoma
appears no larger than the earlier same day head and neck CTA.  The hematoma
is smaller at the level of thoracic inlet than it is either superiorly or
inferiorly.  Inferior to the level of thoracic inlet, the hematoma spans 6.2 x
3.7 cm, terminating approximately 1 cm superior to the carina (series 602,
image 64).

PLEURAL SPACES: No pleural effusion or pneumothorax.

LUNGS/AIRWAYS: The mediastinal hematoma exerts mild mass effect on the
posterior wall of the trachea, though no significant narrowing is noted. An
endotracheal tube tip terminates approximately 2 cm above the level of the
carina.  There is a somewhat nodular area of probable atelectasis in the
anterior right lower lobe abutting the major fissure (series 302, image 158). 
There is linear atelectasis or scarring elsewhere at lung bases.  There is
mild pleural thickening and punctate pleural calcifications.

BASE OF NECK: Visualized portions of the base of the neck show no abnormality.

ABDOMEN: There is a 1.6 cm cyst in hepatic segment VII.  An enteric catheter
courses below the diaphragm and outside the field of view, at least to the
level of the gastric body.

BONES: No thoracic spine rib fractures visualized.  The known cervical spine
fracture was not included within the field of view on this examination.

IMPRESSION:


1. A large retropharyngeal hematoma extends into the superior mediastinum, not
appreciably changed compared to the earlier same day neck CTA.  There is mild
mass effect on the posterior wall of the trachea, but no significant luminal
narrowing.
2. Somewhat nodular opacification focally within the anterior right lower lobe
probably reflects atelectasis.  However, recommend three-month follow-up chest
CT to assess stability.

RECOMMENDATION(S):  Somewhat nodular opacification focally within the anterior
right lower lobe probably reflects atelectasis. However, recommend three-month
follow-up chest CT to assess stability.


#Radiology Summary 234994#

EXAMINATION:  CHEST (PORTABLE AP)

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with intubation// Tube placement, evidence of
atelectasis or pneumonia      Tube placement, evidence of atelectasis or
pneumonia

IMPRESSION: 

Compared to chest radiographs since ___, most recently ___.

Lungs clear.  Moderate cardiomegaly is chronic.  No pulmonary edema or pleural
effusion.

ET tube in standard placement.  Nasogastric drainage tube ends in the upper
stomach.


#Radiology Summary 234995#

EXAMINATION:  MR CERVICAL SPINE W/O CONTRAST ___ MR ___ SPINE

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with mechanical fall and retropharyngeal
hematoma.  Evaluate for fracture.

TECHNIQUE:  Sagittal imaging was performed with T2, T1, and STIR technique. 
Axial T2 and gradient echo imaging were next performed.

COMPARISON:  CT neck ___

FINDINGS: 

There is redemonstration of retropharyngeal hematoma (06:24).  There is linear
STIR hyperintensity extending through anterior C4 vertebral body through the
anterior osteophyte extending into the intervertebral disc space, with mild
intervertebral disc edema.  There is mild prevertebral soft tissue edema with
questionable injury to the anterior longitudinal ligament.  There is also
edema along the inter spinous process and ligamentum  nuchae, more significant
at C4/C5 level, there is fluid within the C6-C7 intervertebral disc space with
STIR hyperintensity of the superior C7 vertebral body endplate without
definite T1 hypointensity, possibly related to marrow edema. Patient is
intubated with presence of an enteric tube.

There is 5 mm retrolisthesis of C4 on C5 and 2 mm anterolisthesis of C 2 on
C3.  There is loss of intervertebral disc space at C4-C5 through C6-C7 levels
with disc desiccation related to degenerative process.

C2-C3: There is no spinal canal stenosis or neural foraminal narrowing.

C3-C4: There is a disc bulge with facet and uncovertebral joint arthropathy
resulting in moderate left and mild right neural foraminal narrowing without
spinal canal stenosis or cord edema.

C4-C5: There is a disc bulge with facet and uncovertebral joint arthropathy
causing moderate spinal canal stenosis with remodeling of spinal cord without
cord edema.  There is moderate to severe right and mild left neural foraminal
narrowing.

C5-C6: There is a disc bulge with facet and uncovertebral joint arthropathy
resulting in moderate spinal canal stenosis with remodeling of the ventral
with remodeling and flattening of the spinal cord (07:27) with moderate
bilateral neural foraminal narrowing.

C6-C7: There is a disc bulge with facet and uncovertebral joint arthropathy
resulting in moderate spinal canal stenosis with remodeling of the ventral
spinal cord without cord edema.  There is moderate left and no right neural
foraminal narrowing.

C7-T1: There is no spinal canal stenosis or neural foraminal narrowing.

IMPRESSION:


1. Acute fracture involving the anterior C4 vertebral body with prevertebral
soft tissue edema and probable injury to the anterior longitudinal ligament as
well the as the interspinous ligament.
2. Edema within the C6-C7 intervertebral disc space with probable osseous
edema of the superior C7 vertebral body.
3. Redemonstration of retropharyngeal hematoma.
4. Retrolisthesis of C4 on C5 and anterolisthesis of C2 on C3.
5. Multilevel degenerative changes as detailed above, with moderate spinal
canal stenosis at C4-C5 through C6-C7 levels with spinal cord remodeling,
without definite cord edema.


#Radiology Summary 234996#

EXAMINATION:  CHEST (PORTABLE AP)

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with interval change// interval change

IMPRESSION: 

In comparison with the study ___, the monitoring support devices are
essentially unchanged.  Cardiac silhouette remains mildly enlarged without
evidence of vascular congestion, pleural effusion, or acute focal pneumonia.


#Radiology Summary 234997#

EXAMINATION:  CHEST PORT. LINE PLACEMENT

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with new R IJ CVL// assess for CVL location  
Contact name: ___: ___     assess for CVL location

IMPRESSION: 

Compared to chest radiographs since ___, most recently ___
through ___ at 05:33.

Combination of small to moderate pleural effusions and moderate bibasilar
atelectasis has increased since earlier in the day.  Moderate cardiomegaly is
chronic.  There is also very mild perihilar edema.

Indwelling cardiopulmonary support devices in standard placements.


#Radiology Summary 234998#

EXAMINATION:  CHEST (PORTABLE AP)

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with retropharyngeal hematoma, intubated// eval
for interval change

TECHNIQUE:  Single frontal view of the chest

COMPARISON:  ___

IMPRESSION: 

Lines and tubes are in standard position.  Bibasilar opacities have markedly
improved.  Bilateral effusions have improved.  Cardiomegaly, tortuous aorta
and prominent hila bilaterally are stable.  There is no evident pneumothorax. 
Sternal wires are intact.


#Radiology Summary 234999#

EXAMINATION:  DX CHEST PORT LINE/TUBE PLCMT 2 EXAMS

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with feeding needs// eval dobhoff placement

COMPARISON:  Chest x-ray is ___

FINDINGS: 

Portable AP semi upright views of the chest were provided.

Dobhoff tube is seen being advanced through the esophagus and ultimately coils
at the GE junction.  A enteric feeding tube courses below the diaphragm, but
terminates beyond the field of view of the image.  A right internal jugular
central venous catheter terminates in the distal SVC.  Endotracheal tube
terminates 2.3 cm above level of carina.  There is mild pulmonary vascular
congestion.  There is moderate cardiomegaly, stable.  There is bibasilar
atelectasis.

IMPRESSION: 

Interval placement of Dobhoff feeding tube which coils at the GE junction and
should be repositioned.  No other significant interval change.


#Radiology Summary 235000#

EXAMINATION:  CHEST (PORTABLE AP)

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with retropharyngeal hematoma// Assess for
interval change      Assess for interval change

IMPRESSION: 

Compared to chest radiographs ___ through ___.

Mild cardiomegaly improved, lungs grossly clear, small bilateral pleural
effusions new or newly apparent.  No pneumothorax.  Right jugular line ends in
the low SVC..


#Radiology Summary 235001#

EXAMINATION:  DX CHEST PORT LINE/TUBE PLCMT 2 EXAMS

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with dobhoff placement// dobhoff placement

TECHNIQUE:  Chest single view

COMPARISON:  ___ 12:23

FINDINGS: 

Under radiograph taken at 19:24 feeding tube tip is coiled in the proximal
stomach.
On the radiograph taken at 19:32, feeding tube has been pulled back, with tip
in the distal esophagus.
Heart size, mild pulmonary vascular congestion are stable.  Mild basilar
opacities have increased, consider worsening edema or atelectasis.  Small
bilateral pleural effusions are likely.  No pneumothorax.

IMPRESSION: 

On the second radiograph, feeding tube tip is in distal esophagus, should be
advanced.


#Radiology Summary 235002#

EXAMINATION:  VIDEO OROPHARYNGEAL SWALLOW

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with retropharyngeal hematoma// ability to eat

TECHNIQUE:  Oropharyngeal swallowing videofluoroscopy was performed in
conjunction with the speech and swallow division.  Multiple consistencies of
barium were administered.

DOSE:  Fluoro time: 02:16 min.

COMPARISON:  None.

FINDINGS: 

Barium passes freely through the oropharynx and esophagus without evidence of
obstruction.  There was no gross aspiration.  Penetration is seen thin and
nectar consistencies, which cleared with subsequent swallow.

IMPRESSION: 

No aspiration.  Penetration with thin and nectar consistencies.

Please refer to the speech and swallow division note in OMR for full details,
assessment, and recommendations.


#Radiology Summary 235003#

EXAMINATION:  CT HEAD W/O CONTRAST Q111 CT HEAD

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with RP bleed with C4 VB fx., now with
increased neck pain and post. head pain// evaluate for interval change

TECHNIQUE:  Contiguous axial images of the brain were obtained without
contrast. Coronal and sagittal reformations as well as bone algorithm
reconstructions were provided and reviewed.

DOSE:  Acquisition sequence:
   1) Sequenced Acquisition 4.0 s, 16.0 cm; CTDIvol = 46.7 mGy (Head) DLP =
747.3 mGy-cm.
 Total DLP (Head) = 747 mGy-cm.

COMPARISON:  ___

FINDINGS: 

There is no evidence of acute infarction,hemorrhage,edema, or mass. There is
prominence of the ventricles and sulci suggestive of involutional changes. 
Again seen is confluent periventricular and subcortical, brainstem white
matter hypodensities, nonspecific, however likely sequela of severe chronic
small vessel ischemic disease in the absence of acute symptoms, similar.. 
Bilateral basal ganglia and thalamic hypodensities are also unchanged, thought
to represent a combination of prominent perivascular spaces and chronic
lacunar infarcts.  Tiny chronic right cerebellar infarct, stable.

There is no evidence of acute fracture.  There is moderate opacification with
fluid in the sphenoid sinus.  Submucosal retention cyst in the left maxillary
sinus is.  Trace fluid in the inferior left mastoid air cells.  Otherwise, the
visualized portion of the paranasal sinuses, mastoid air cells, and middle ear
cavities are clear.  The visualized portion of the orbits are unremarkable. 
Dense calcifications in the carotid siphons are noted.

IMPRESSION:


1. Findings most consistent with severe chronic small vessel ischemic changes
in the absence of acute symptoms.  No intracranial hemorrhage.
2. Paranasal sinus disease, suggestive of acute sphenoid sinusitis in the
absence of recent intubation.


#Radiology Summary 235004#

EXAMINATION:  CHEST (PA AND LAT)

INDICATION:  ___ year old woman with recent trauma to neck now w/ low-grade
fevers and leukocytosis// rule out pneumonia

IMPRESSION: 

In comparison with the study ___, the right IJ catheter has been
removed.  Continued enlargement of the cardiac silhouette in a patient with
previous CABG procedure an intact midline sternal wires.  Mild elevation of
pulmonary venous pressure with small bilateral pleural effusions and
compressive atelectasis at the bases.
No definite acute focal pneumonia.
